Undergraduate
HOW MUCH IS THE TUITION FEE?

Please visit https://www.nileuniversity.edu.ng/tuition-fees.

IS ACCOMMODATION INCLUDED IN THE TUITION FEE?

No, the tuition fee is not accommodation inclusive. Visit https://nileuniversity.edu.ng/student-accommodation to see the tuition fee.

IS THE TUITION FEE PAID ANNUALLY?

Our tuition fee is per session (2 semesters), and it is exclusive of accommodation and feeding.

CAN THE TUITION FEE BE PAID IN INSTALMENTS?

The tuition can be paid in two 50% instalments per semester.

WHAT COURSES DOES NILE OFFER?

Please visit https://www.nileuniversity.edu.ng/find-a-course to see the courses offered.

HOW CAN I APPLY FOR ADMISSION?

Applications can be made via https://application.nileuniversity.edu.ng/register.

DOES NILE CONDUCT A POST-UTME EXAM?

Nile university of Nigeria currently does not conduct Post-UTME exams for students.

Can I apply for a UG program with an awaiting result?

HOW CAN I APPLY FOR SCHOLARSHIP?

Apply for admission via https://application.nileuniversity.edu.ng/register, and if your results meet our requirements, https://www.nileuniversity.edu.ng/scholarships-and-discounts), the scholarship will be granted automatically.

DOES NILE ACCEPT DIRECT ENTRY AND TRANSFER STUDENTS?

Yes. To apply, please forward your university transcript, O’level result, UTME result and JAMB admission letter (if transferring from a Nigerian university) via email to admission@nileuniversity.edu.ng and then apply online via https://application.nileuniversity.edu.ng/register.

WHAT ABOUT ACCOMMODATION AND FEEDING?

Please visit https://www.nileuniversity.edu.ng/student-accommodation.

DO I NEED A JAMB RESULT TO GAIN ADMISSION INTO NILE UNIVERSITY OF NIGERIA? 

Yes, you need a JAMB result if you are a Nigerian student, but foreign students must provide their 12th-grade school results.

CAN I GET ADMISSION WITH MY PREVIOUS YEAR’S JAMB RESULT? 

Yes, if you have gained admission previously with another school that has processed your JAMB result.

If your JAMB result is for the previous year, you can change your first choice of school to Nile University, upload your O’level results, and get back to us.

WHAT IS THE PROCEDURE FOR APPLYING TO THE NILE UNIVERSITY OF NIGERIA? 

All applications are done online on the university website: www.nileuniversity.edu.ng.

DO I HAVE TO PAY FOR THE APPLICATION? IF SO, HOW MUCH DOES YOUR FORM COST? 

Application to Nile University of Nigeria is free.

I CAN’T FIND THE NAME OF MY SECONDARY/TERTIARY INSTITUTION VIA THE APPLICATION PORTAL. 

Kindly select others; a space will be provided for you to input the name of your school.

HOW LONG DOES IT TAKE TO GET AN OFFER LETTER AFTER COMPLETING MY APPLICATION?

It takes a few days to process your admission once received by the admissions office. If you have been offered admission, you will be notified via email.

I CHOSE THE WRONG DEGREE WHILE APPLYING; WHAT SHOULD I DO? 

You will need to reapply with a different email address.

HOW DO I CHECK MY APPLICATION STATUS? 

To check the status of your application, log on to the application portal via  https://application.nileuniversity.edu.ng/register you will see the status on your dashboard.

Postgraduate
HOW MUCH IS THE TUITION FEE?

Please visit https://www.nileuniversity.edu.ng/tuition-fees.

IS THE TUITION FEE ANNUAL?

Our tuition fee is per session (2 semesters), and it is exclusive of accommodation and feeding.

CAN THE TUITION FEE BE PAID IN INSTALMENTS?

The tuition can be paid in two instalments of 50% per semester.

WHAT COURSES DOES NILE OFFER?

Please visit https://www.nileuniversity.edu.ng/find-a-course to see the courses we offer.

WHEN SHOULD I APPLY?

Postgraduate applications can be done continuously for next semester.

Do I need a NYSC certificate to apply for a postgraduate program?

Yes, the NYSC certificate is required to apply for a postgraduate program.

HOW CAN I APPLY FOR ADMISSION?

Applications can be made via https://application.nileuniversity.edu.ng/register.

DOES NILE CONDUCT ANY EXAM?

No. Only interviews for PhD candidates.

IS THERE ANY SCHOLARSHIP?

No, but there are various discounts. See https://www.nileuniversity.edu.ng/scholarships-and-discounts.

WHAT ARE THE GENERAL ENTRY REQUIREMENTS FOR A MASTER’S DEGREE PROGRAM AT NILE UNIVERSITY? 

A Bachelor’s degree (B.Sc.) in a related course, transcript, statement of result/certificate, and O’level. 

WHAT ARE THE GENERAL ENTRY REQUIREMENTS FOR AN M.PHIL PROGRAM AT NILE UNIVERSITY? 

A Bachelor’s degree, Professional Master’s Degree, and O’Level. 

WHAT ARE THE GENERAL ENTRY REQUIREMENTS FOR A PHD PROGRAM AT NILE UNIVERSITY? 

A Master’s (M.Sc.) and Bachelor’s degree (B.Sc.) in a related course, transcript, statement of result/certificate, O’level. 

WHAT ARE THE LECTURE HOURS FOR PG PROGRAMS? 

On weekdays (Monday – Friday), lectures start at 5 pm, while on weekends (Saturdays), lectures start at 9 am.  

IS THERE AN ACCEPTANCE FEE FOR NILE UNIVERSITY’S PG PROGRAMS? 

There is no acceptance fee, only the tuition fee. 

IS IT POSSIBLE FOR A POSTGRADUATE STUDENT TO RUN HIS/HER COURSEWORK AT ANOTHER UNIVERSITY AND CONCLUDE HIS/HER THESIS AT NILE UNIVERSITY? 

Yes, it is possible. 

DO YOU OFFER SHORT CERTIFICATION COURSES? 

Yes, we offer short certification courses – through our subsidiary, Nile Online. Visit www.nileonline.com.ng to learn more.

School Of Preliminary Studies (SPS)
How can I get admission without writing JAMB?

Admission without JAMB is for students that enrol for the Nile University School of Preliminary Studies that qualifies them to gain Direct Entry admission into 200 level.

What are the subject combinations for SPS?

To see the subject combination for SPS based on your choice of course, kindly visit https://www.nileuniversity.edu.ng/sps-application to see the options available.

DOES NILE UNIVERSITY OFFER ANY A-LEVEL ENTRANCE PROGRAM?

Yes, Nile University of Nigeria has a full-time intensive A-Level program called the School of Preliminary Studies (SPS), designed for students seeking direct entry admission into the University through JUPEB. 

WHAT CATEGORY OF STUDENTS IS THE NILE UNIVERSITY SPS PROGRAM DESIGNED FOR?

The Nile University SPS program is designed for; 

Students who do not have JAMB but wish to gain admission to the university through direct entry. 
Students who wish to switch between disciplines (e.g., from the Arts to Sciences).
WHAT IS THE DURATION OF THE NILE UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF PRELIMINARY STUDIES (SPS) PROGRAM?

The Nile University School of Preliminary Studies (SPS) Program is available for a duration of 12-months, providing students with a comprehensive range of knowledge and skills in areas related to the programme they wish to study in the university. 

WHAT ARE THE REQUIREMENTS FOR APPLYING INTO THE NILE UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF PRELIMINARY STUDIES (SPS)

To submit an application for SPS admission, you will need an O’Level result, WAEC, Birth certificate, Passport photo and National Identification Number (NIN).

HOW IS THE NILE UNIVERSITY SPS PROGRAM STRUCTURED?

The Nile University School of Preliminary Studies (SPS) programme offers a blend of Nigerian and Foreign A ‘Level courses, enabling students who have met the requirements to gain direct entry admission to 200 Level at Nile University and outside the country. 
Students enrolled in the Nile University SPS programme are expected to select three courses relevant to their intended course of study, including some mandatory general knowledge courses.
HOW MUCH DOES THE NILE UNIVERSITY SPS PROGRAM COST?

  Tuition for Nile University’s SPS programmes vary depending on the course: 

For Sciences: ₦2,750,000 
For Non-Sciences: ₦2,500,000.
WHAT IS THE PROCEDURE FOR APPLYING TO THE NILE UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF PRELIMINARY STUDIES?

Application to the Nile University School of Preliminary Studies (SPS) is done online via the website: www.nileuniversity.edu.ng/school-of-preliminary-studies.

ARE SPS STUDENTS ENTITLED TO ON-CAMPUS ACCOMMODATION?

 Yes, Students enrolling in the Nile University SPS programme are entitled to on-campus accommodation at a cost separate from tuition. 

Applications
How do I submit an application?

To submit an application, log in to the application portal.

How can I check my application status?

Sign in to your application portal to view your application status.

How do I get my verification link?

After signing up to create an account, you can check your email for the verification link. You can also check your spam or junk folder in case the email was delivered there instead.

How can I complete my application that is in progress?

To complete an application that is in progress, sign in to your application portal using a valid email and password, then click on the manage button to complete and submit the application.

How long does it take to get an offer letter after submitting an application?

Depending on the volume of applications, the admission process takes two weeks. After review, we will send the admission decision via email.

Can an application be made for the UG program with an awaiting result?

Yes, you can submit an application with an awaiting O level result pending the release of your result.

Online Payment
How much is Nile University of Nigeria tuition fee?

For information about tuition fees, kindly visit this page.

How do I  pay my tuition after gaining admission?

All tuition payments are made online through the school website at: www.nileuniversity.edu.ng. Click Pay Fees in the menu of the website homepage then select the category you belong to. 

For new students, payments are made on the application portal. 

For returning students, payments are made via the student portal/dashboard. 

What does the tuition fee cover?

The breakdown of the tuition fee is attached to your offer letter. Please note that tuition does not cover hostel accommodation. 

Can I pay tuition in full for the entire duration of my program?

Yes, but you are required to visit the Accounts/Finance Unit to fill out an agreement form. 

Can I pay for another session before it begins?

Yes, the payment link is always open for payments. 

 Is it possible to make tuition payments in installments?

Students are allowed to pay their annual tuition in two installments of 50%, payable at the start of each semester. 

Can I write my exams and make the payment later?

No, students with outstanding fees will not be allowed to write their semester exams. 

Can I get a refund if I paid more than the tuition for my course of study?

Payment of tuition in excess is ONLY refundable when a student has graduated or has officially withdrawn. All excess payments will be transferred to the subsequent semesters.

Why should I use the new online payment system?

Our online payment system is a  convenient way of making tuition payments since it allows you to execute such transactions from the comfort of your home. You no longer have to go to the bank or come to our campus to make your tuition payments. Additionally, your payment is processed quicker when you use the online system relative to Direct bank transfers and POS payment at the school premises.

How secure is the online payment system?

The payment system uses encrypted communications, making it very secure. Also, we do not collect or save your financial data as all online payment attempts made by our customers from our website are terminated on either Interswitch or Paystack payment portals (which are both PCI DSS 3.2 compliant as Level 1 Service Providers (loosely referred to as PCI Level 1 compliance).

Why does the bank account number that appears when I choose the “Pay with Bank” option keep changing for every new transaction?

The Bank account displayed during this type of Paystack checkout method is a Virtual and Dynamic (temporary and constantly changing) Account number. It is only valid for the time duration of the transaction (an attempt to make payment to this account number outside this transaction will fail).

How long does it take for my payment to reflect in the University’s account with this system?

Immediately the transaction success message is shown, the payment is reflected on the University’s portal.

What kinds of bank cards are accepted for online payments?

All Debit and Credit cards from all over the world, as long as they are issued by Mastercard, Visa, and Verve.

What does the “USSD” payment method mean?

USSD (Unstructured Supplementary Service Data) Payment method Involves using a short code provided during the transaction to make the payment from your bank from your Mobile phone without the need of an Internet connection (GTB’s *737#, UBA’s *919# and Sterling Bank’s *822#).

What payment methods do you accept?

Paystack – Pay with Transfer (Zenith Bank Dynamic Account ), Pay with Card (Mastercard, Visa, Verve), Pay with Bank (First Bank of Nigeria, Guaranty Trust Bank, Kuda Bank, Sterling Bank, United Bank For Africa, Zenith Bank).
Pay with Visa QR (Ecobank, FirstBank, Fidelity, Access or Zenith Bank mobile app).
Interswitch – Pay with Card (Mastercard, Visa, Verve).
Who do I contact if I am encountering problems with the online payment system?

For all online payment related issues and complaints please send an email to onlinepayments@nileuniversity.edu.ng.

Scholarships
Does Nile University offer scholarships?

Yes, we offer academic and sports scholarships and discounts. However, Law and Medicine are not included in our academic scholarships. Kindly review the scholarship policy on our website at https://www.nileuniversity.edu.ng/scholarships-and-discounts.

Are there existing scholarship opportunities for students currently running a program at Nile University?

There is none for now. Scholarships can only be obtained at the point of joining Nile University. 

Online Programs
Do you offer online courses?

Yes, we offer online courses & short professional courses through our subsidiary, Nile Online. Visit www.nileonline.com.ng to learn more.

Do you offer a part-time program?

No, we do not. All our programs are full-time. 

Transfers
What is the procedure for transferring to Nile University of Nigeria from another university?

To submit a transfer application, visit this link. Note that your transcript, O level result and JAMB admission letter is required to process your application.

Can a student in 200 level transfer to another course of study and still maintain the same level (200 level)?

Yes, but there are conditions. Kindly visit your department for more information. 

Can a final-year (400 level) student from another university transfer to Nile University and continue from 400 level?

No, a transfer student must spend a minimum of four semesters (two sessions) in the new university before graduation. 

Can a PG student transfer to Nile University?

Yes. 

Do I need to provide a JAMB result if I am transferring from a foreign University to Nile University?

No, but you need to apply for a JAMB admission letter. 

How do I  request my transcript?

To request a transcript, students should contact the Academic Division office via email at academicdivision@nileuniversity.edu.ng or physically at Nile House (administrative building), Room 121.  

Official transcripts are available for a fee of ₦10,000, while unofficial transcripts are free.  

The Academic Division office may be able to send official transcripts on behalf of a requesting student to a stipulated destination (school, etc.), although the cost of sending the transcript may vary depending on the location it is being sent to. 

Students Portal
How do I get my login details to access my student portal/dashboard?

After enrolling in the admissions office, students will receive their login details via email. These login details are necessary for accessing services and resources, such as registering for courses and checking academic records. 

How do I retrieve/reset my password on the portal?

If students forget their password, they can reset it by clicking on the “password reset” option and following the prompts. If they do not have access to their school email, they can visit the IT office in the administrative building, Nile House, room 109, or send an email to itsupport@nileuniversity.edu.ng for assistance. 

How can I generate a receipt after making a payment?

Visit your student portal, select My finance then select account information and click the online payment hyperlink. Finally, download the file. 

Why am I on “registration hold”?

You can be prevented from taking part in registration for two reasons: an outstanding (unpaid) balance or a low CGPA. 

Why do I see an outstanding balance, when I don’t have any?

If the outstanding balance is in a bracket/parenthesis, you do not have to worry, it is unutilized funds paid to your student account. However, if the outstanding payment is not in a bracket that means you have an outstanding balance to pay. You can visit the Accounts/Finance Unit for further clarifications if required. 

Can I register before making the stipulated payment for tuition?

 No, you cannot register unless you have paid the stipulated tuition. 

 You may, however, register if the balance on your dashboard is greater than 50% of the current semester’s tuition. 

How do I register for my courses?

Kindly contact your department/academic division. 

I misplaced my ID card; where and how do I get a  new card?

Student ID cards can be collected from the departmental secretaries or the Academic Division department. 

For new students, as soon as you get an ID number and your picture has been uploaded to the portal, kindly visit your department to collect your ID card.
Students who misplace their ID  cards are charged N5,000 to get a new one. Students are advised to take care of their ID cards to avoid this fee.
What are the procedures for “change of course/department”?

Students who wish to change their courses or departments should obtain a “Change of Department/Course” form from the Academic Division office (Nile House, Room 121).  
They may need to meet certain requirements, such as having the necessary O’Level and JAMB qualifications, and there may be limitations on the number of times they can change their course or department. 
It is important for students to carefully consider their decision and consult with academic advisors before opting to change their course/department. 
Hostel/Accommodation
Is hostel accommodation automatically included in my tuition fee?

Accommodation is not part of students’ tuition fees; it is a separate and optional cost.   

How do I apply for on-campus accommodation?

Applications for on-campus accommodation are done online via the hostel portal.

Are all students automatically entitled to on-campus accommodation?

No, accommodation is offered on a first-come, first-served basis to students who meet the eligibility criteria for accommodation. 

What are the criteria for eligibility for on-campus accommodation?

To be eligible for on-campus accommodation, students must meet the following minimum requirements:

Has enrolled (been admitted and made the stipulated tuition payment). 
Has applied for accommodation via the hostel portal.
Has attended the briefing session with the hostel manager. It is mandatory for students to attend this session with at least one parent/guardian. 
Has passed the required medical examination.  
Has paid the stipulated accommodation fee. 
Has a minimum CGPA of 2.50 and no record of disciplinary issues (for returning students). 
Can I make a payment for a hostel bed space before receiving confirmation of hostel accommodation?

Only students who have been given accommodation are allowed to make payment for bed spaces.

Is the hostel fee refundable?

Once you make the full payment for a semester’s hostel space and receive the room key, the hostel fee becomes non-refundable. 

Are there students that are prioritised for on-campus accommodation?

First-year (100 level) and final-year (400 level) students are prioritised for on-campus accommodation. However, even within this category of students, accommodation is offered on a first-come, first-served basis.

Research And Innovation
Does Nile University offer incentives for research?

Yes, Nile University rewards and recognises active researchers.

Do faculty members of Nile University engage in research activities?

Yes, Nile University has a robust pool of faculty members who engage in the conduct and publishing of quality research in top-rated scientific journals. 

Are there research training opportunities available for students and faculty members?

Nile University organises bi-monthly academic (teaching and research) training and workshops tagged “Academic Seminar Series” for all its postgraduate students and faculty members. 

What unit oversees research-related activities at the Nile University of Nigeria?

The Research and Innovation unit, under the office of the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (DVC), oversees the conduct of all research activities and publications undertaken by the faculty members of the Nile University of Nigeria. 

Note: For all enquiries relating to research and innovations, contact the Research and Innovations unit at research.coordinator@nileuniversity.edu.ng or physically at Nile House, Room 202. 

Others
When was Nile University established?

The Nile University of Nigeria was established in 2009.

Who owns Nile University of Nigeria?

The Nile University of Nigeria is owned by Honoris United Universities. 

What is Honoris United Universities all about?

Honoris United Universities is the first and largest pan-African private higher education network, with 15 institutions across 10 African countries, including Morocco, Nigeria, Tunisia, Mauritius, and South Africa. 

Are Nile University’s courses accredited?

Yes, all the courses offered at the Nile University of Nigeria are fully accredited by the National Universities Commission (NUC).

Is Nile University a Muslim school?

No, Nile University is a secular school owned by the Honoris United Universities Network. 

Is there a Chapel at Nile University?

We do not have a chapel yet, but we have a functioning students’ Christian fellowship and a hall where church services are held. 

How safe is your school?

Our institution is secure and well-protected. We combine the use of private security with the police and other security agencies, as well as relevant security technologies, to ensure the safety of our campus community.  

Does Nile University have a dress code?

No, however, we expect our students to dress decently at all times. 

What are the working hours for Nile University of Nigeria?

The working hours for Nile University of Nigeria are from 9am to 5pm.

How can I apply for a job at Nile University of Nigeria?

For job applications, visit the career page on the Nile University of Nigeria website